---
title: Revolutionizing the Web with Gun, Vue, HTML and importmaps.
date: 2023-04-21
youtube: JsDPsR91Zw8 
version: 0.16.8
---

Yes, the moment of real transformation is here. Browser development got to the point where we don't need servers to run our web clients. You can just open (or easily write yourself with low-code solutions) in a single local HTML file. And it's working!

I was amazed to see the vite-plugin-singlefile make the main Gun-Vue app fit in just a single file. And then I just tried to open it as a file, with the file:// protocol. And suddenly it worked! There was no error of not having a secure connection to use browser crypto functions and CORS and all that. Clean console and a nice working app, just without the logo loaded from a separate file (which is SVG as can be inlined too). That's a revolution!

And then I tried to make a minimal HTML file to run a Gun-Vue powered app and I found that Safari is introducing support for importmap tag, making it available to 75% of all the web users. And with importmaps we can have a 30 LOC reactive p2p apps in plain local HTML files. Can you believe that's actually happening?

Hope browsers are aware how much this tech can disrupt regular web and won't overreact if we will see a significant adoption of that feature. But now we have that moment! Let's enjoy the waterfall of possibilities rushing before us. And dive in it together.

https://github.com/DeFUCC/gun-vue/releases Here're the latest releases
https://caniuse.com/?search=importmap importmap info